Update Accessibility & Localization (#199)
FlutterFlow/flutterflow-documentation: docs/ff-concepts/localization-accessibility/localization.md

- **Localization (l10n)**: This is the process of translating the content of your app and adapting it for a specific locale or culture. It involves providing translations for user-visible strings, formatting dates, times, and numbers, and adapting content to meet cultural norms.

In a nutshell, internationalization is about making your app to support multiple languages, while localization is the actual process of translating the content and adapting it to specific locales.

:::

## Add Multi Language Support

FlutterFlow enables you to translate all text in your app at once using Google Translate or to manually adjust translations as needed. Additionally, you can localize predefined messages, such as permission prompts, authentication snackbars, and other in-app notifications.

> Adding multi-language support is essential for making your app accessible to a wider audience. For instance, if your app provides exercise instructions only in English, non-English speakers may struggle to understand and choose a different app, even if it's less effective, simply because it's available in their language. Implementing a multi-language feature helps your app succeed globally by offering a user-friendly experience for diverse audiences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding multi-language support is essential for making your app accessible to a wider audience. For instance, if your app provides exercise instructions only in English, non-English speakers may find it hard to understand and might choose a different app, even if it’s less effective, simply because it’s available in their language. Implementing a multi-language feature helps your app succeed globally by offering a user-friendly experience for diverse audiences.
```

    height: 0,
    width: '100%'}}>
    <iframe 
        src="https://demo.arcade.software/po8PphcS06ljCvKsTG76?embed&show_copy_link=true"
        title=""
        style={{
            position: 'absolute',
            top: 0,
            left: 0,
            width: '100%',
            height: '100%',
            colorScheme: 'light'
        }}
        frameborder="0"
        loading="lazy"
        webkitAllowFullScreen
        mozAllowFullScreen
        allowFullScreen
        allow="clipboard-write">
    </iframe>
</div>
<p></p>

## LanguageSelector Widget

The **LanguageSelector** widget in FlutterFlow allows users to switch to their preferred language in real-time without needing to restart the app. It displays the currently selected language and, when interacted with, presents a list of all available languages for easy selection.

It's particularly useful on onboarding screens or within settings menus to allow users to customize their language preferences.

### LanguageSelector Properties

You can customize the appearance using the various properties available under the Properties Panel.

![language-selector-properties.avif](imgs/language-selector-properties.avif)

:::tip

> By default, the LanguageSelector widget does not persist the user's language choice across app sessions. To retain the selected language, enable the **Persist Selection** option under language settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the **LanguageSelector** widget does not persist the user's language choice across app sessions. To retain the selected language, enable the **Persist Selection** option under Language Settings.
```

:::

## Set App Language Manually [Action]

Sometimes, you might prefer not to use the default [LanguageSelector widget](#languageselector-widget) and instead implement a custom widget for language switching. For example, you could create a custom language selection screen that appears when the app first launches.

You can use the **Set App Language** action to let users choose their preferred language from the available options.

:::info

Note that this action affects only the app's language and does not modify the device's system language.

:::

![set-app-lang-action.png](imgs/set-app-lang-action.png)

## Managing Translation

There are two ways you can manage the app text translation:

> ### Inside Language Settings

Reviewer: This can be bullet points itself? Or just bold headings will work. No need for headers.

Start by entering your message in the base language. Then, either use the **Translate Message** button for automatic translation or manually add your translations and mark them as **Fixed** to prevent them from being overridden by auto-translate.

:::info

Permission messages are displayed based on the features included in your app. For instance, Camera and Photo Library permission messages appear when a page contains a button with the **Upload Photo/Video action**.

:::

<div style={{
    position: 'relative',
    paddingBottom: 'calc(56.67989417989418% + 41px)', // Keeps the aspect ratio and additional padding
    height: 0,
    width: '100%'}}>
    <iframe 
        src="https://demo.arcade.software/tTmqFpnDLdCgVXHl9kDz?embed&show_copy_link=true"
        title=""
        style={{
            position: 'absolute',
            top: 0,
            left: 0,
            width: '100%',
            height: '100%',
            colorScheme: 'light'
        }}
        frameborder="0"
        loading="lazy"
        webkitAllowFullScreen
        mozAllowFullScreen
        allowFullScreen
        allow="clipboard-write">
    </iframe>
</div>
<p></p>

> ## Retrieving Language Related Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Accessing Language-Specific Data
```

When building a multi-language app, you may need data like the current language code or language-specific text.

In FlutterFlow, you can retrieve the following types of language-related data:

- **Current Language Code**: This provides the ISO language code for the current app language (e.g., en, de, fr).

> - **Language-Dependent Text**: Allows you to specify different values for each language. For instance, you might want to display a country flag or name based on the current app language.

Reviewer: I havent used this much, so dont know much about this language dependent text. Who is specifying these values for each language? the user? From the image it seems to me that I can use this value on text properties but then I dont get "Allows you to specify different values for each language"

Author: Yes, it is set by the user. Think of it like conditional values based on language. It is helpful in cases where you don't want to show translated text instead, show something else like a flag or anything.

These options are accessible through **Set from Variable > Internationalization**.

![retrieve-lang-data.png](imgs/retrieve-lang-data.png)

> ## Formatting Dates, Numbers, and Currency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Localizing Dates, Numbers, and Currency
```

Reviewer: Also as SEO & search point of view, I would rather not have this header and just have 3 main headers - Localizing Dates, Localizing Numbers etc because they are unrelated to each other right? So no point in keeping them under this header which anyway has no purpose as such other than just a single intro. So maybe we get rid of this header and promote the other headers?

Author: Good point! removed it.

![localize-numbers.avif](imgs/localize-numbers.avif)

### Currency

Currency symbols and their placement vary by locale. For example, in the U.S., the dollar sign appears before the amount (`$1,000.00`), whereas in countries like France, the currency symbol is placed after the amount (e.g., `1 000,50 €`).

To handle this behavior, enable the **Display as Currency** option under Number Format settings and leave the **Currency Symbol** field empty to automatically adjust based on the user’s locale.

![localize-currency.avif](imgs/localize-currency.avif)

## Testing

Localization testing is crucial to ensure that all elements work properly across different languages and locales. Here are a few ways to test localization:

- **Change Device Locale**: Test your app by changing the device locale to verify translations and layout adjustments.
- **Use Emulators**: Use Android or iOS emulators to simulate different locales and ensure everything is displaying correctly.
- **Long Texts**: Verify that long translations do not overflow or cause UI issues.

> - **Manual Testing**: Manually verify the accuracy of translations, date formats, number formats, etc.

Reviewer: I think somewhere in the doc (either here or as an example) we should mention about handling RTL languages

Author: I looked into it, but we don't support RTL languages natively in FF.

Reviewer: Ooh interesting!
